Here's my description of legal setup for tokens entities for crypto founders. I'm not a lawyer so this isn't legal advice, just a collection of notes.

In order to collect investment money you need a legal document, this comes in the form of a SAFE + Token Warrant or a SAFT. SAFE are how regular startups collect funds, just a sale of equity in a C-Corp to an investor. They're cheap (clerky.com), the full setup of creating an entity and registering officers shouldn't cost more than $1000 max. Token Warrant agreements are a promissory note to your investors to offer them equity in the future, and don't require any additional legal setup.

You can download a typical SAFE + Token Warrant off the internet, have yourself or a lawyer do a quick read through and use as is. All in costs for a SAFE + Token warrant are a few hundred bucks to $1K max (anything more than that and you're overpaying :) ) and they take a few days to a week to fully setup. My personal hesitation with C-Corps is I personally believe the USA will likely implement costly compliance overhead for crypto founders in the near future and staying in the USA will add a compliance overhead. The other concern is that the c-corp creates an easily suable entity and puts you under the jursidiction of the U.S, which companies who don't serve U.S customers would likely prefer to avoid. If you're issuing a token, you are likely at minimum not serving U.S customers on a frontend.

The alternative is a SAFT, which requires an offshore entity. Keep in mind even with a SAFE + Token warrant you will need to create an offshore entity as well, just that the SAFE + Token warrant lets you defer entity creation to when you're ready. By entity, we are referring to the token-entity which will almost certainly be a BVI corporation, through which you actually issue the token. You then have a labs corporation, which I've seen based in Panama (SushiDAO), Cayman (personal preference, Sui & Aptos), or Singapore (Sei Labs). I believe Cayman is more expensive but has better legal clarity, while Panama is cheaper but there's no specific laws governing crypto, so there's less legal clarity.

A firm like Ogier or Harneys will charge you 20-40K to do offshore setup, then charge you 10K / year in maintenance (which seems cheap but realize that there's no way to recall a crypto token, so you're paying this in perpetuity). Meanwhile the actual registration fees in these countries are a few grand. I noticed certain firms (not the ones I've listed) use firms like www.ccpbvi.com, to do the actual entity setup. I also have seen cheaper on the ground options for setup such as (https://www.hcsoffshore.com/services).

You then have a C-Corp in the USA which collects salaries from the Cayman Entity and pays employees etc. Your c-corp should have a business banking account while obtaining a cayman bank account is a pain and takes 2-3 months (I'd avoid it). Total offshore setup is predicted to take 4-5 weeks.

Though initial setup isn't too expensive, the concern is taking any action (such as audit defence from the IRS) will start to incur more serious legal fees, so minimizing costs actually enables the crypto firm to use more legal services and be better protected. Legal bills can multiply fast and its in a firms best interst in my opinion to work with a setup where they can definitely afford the costs of defence and upkeep should it come to it.


After some research seems like the most standard way to set this up is have a c-corp for U.S Salaries, and then a Cayman Exempt Entity for the Labs Corporation to take in investment funds in the form of a SAFE note. Later on set up a Cayman Foundation to manage the DAO and then a BVI entity to actually issue the token. The reason for the BVI entity is that the Caymans is more restrictive around token issuance while the BVI has no laws regulating tokens.

You may be able to use a SAFT note as long as you keep careful accounting of the deferred revenue from the SAFT on your balance sheet to avoid triggering tax liability on the net fundraise amount. Will update on this in a bit. Given the difficulty of taxes, I also chose to go with a crypto specialty accounting firm to ensure the offshore / tax burden is reported properly.


